Version 1.5.1 of Routino released : Sat Nov 13 2010
---------------------------------------------------

Bug fixes:
  Ensure that enough memory is allocated for filenames.
  Fix bug that sometimes causes crash when processing route relations.

Documentation:
  Update documentation to reflect changes in program usage and function.

Programs:
  Add an option to make the output more suitable for a log file.

Documentation:
  Update documentation to reflect changes in program usage.


Version 1.5 of Routino released : Sat Oct 30 2010
-------------------------------------------------

Bug fixes:
  Check that number of nodes/segments/ways doesn't exceed numerical limits.
  Allow 32-bit systems to seek within files larger than 4GB.
  Allow nearly 4G nodes to be stored instead of 2G before.
  Added rules to makefile for installation (paths specified in top-level).
  Stricter checking of UTF-8 in XML files and better UTF-8 output.
  Improve error message if parsing of command line options fail.
  Fix bugs in router's --help-profile-json and --help-profile-perl options.
  Rename heapsort function to allow compilation on Mac OS with no change.
  Reduce impact of property preferences close to 50% by using sqrt().

Documentation:
  Update documentation to reflect changes in program usage and function.

OSM tagging
  Traffic restrictions on nodes are now included in default tagging file.
  Added processing for ferry routes (as pseudo-highway type 'ferry').
  Process foot and bicycle route relations to create new properties.

Configuration Files:
  Added Dutch output translations.
  Added ferry information to profiles.
  Added foot and bicycle route relation processing.

planetsplitter
  The slim mode now includes the output data as well as the temporary data.
  The slim mode is now a separate executable and not a command line option.
  Traffic restrictions on nodes are now understood when parsing OSM files.
  Falls back to installed tagging.xml configuration file as last resort.

router:
  Added a slim mode (as a separate executable and not a command line option).
  Traffic will not be routed through a node that does not allow it.
  Falls back to installed profiles.xml & translations.xml files as last resort.

filedumper:
  Added a slim mode (as a separate executable and not a command line option).

Web pages:
  Added Dutch translation of router.html.


Version 1.4.1 of Routino released : Sat Jul 10 2010
---------------------------------------------------

Bug fixes:
  Don't crash if start and finish are the same point.
  Don't crash if several translations but --language option not used.
  Don't crash if middle part of route cannot be found.
  Don't allocate so much memory for intermediate nodes; routes much faster.
  Fix problem with finding closest segment to the specified point.

Documentation:
  Provide HTML versions of the documentation (copy to web directory at install).
  Change URL for website to http://www.routino.org/.

Configuration Files:
  Added German output translations.

planetsplitter
  Slight change to algorithm for finding super-nodes.

Web pages:
  Provide HTML versions of the documentation.
  Change URL for website to http://www.routino.org/.
  Provide updated HTML files, the same as on the website.
  Change to OpenLayers v2.9.1 and build custom version if Python available.


Version 1.4 of Routino released : Mon May 31 2010
-------------------------------------------------

Bug fixes:
  Speed up start/via/stop point within segment search algorithm.
  If no segment is found don't try routing but exit with error.
  Improve the error messages by adding operating system error info to them.
  Rewrite of tagging rules fixes bug with wheelchair access allow/deny.
  Files greater than 2GB can be read/written on 32-bit systems.
  Fix bug with profile preferences when optimising a route.
  Stricter check on profile validity before starting routing.

planetsplitter
  Add --parse-only and --process-only options (for incremental parsing).
  Allow filenames to be specified on command line (default is still stdin).
  Improved the '--help' information to describe all options.
  Remove --transport, --not-highway, --not-property options (use config file).
  Use tag transformation rules in configuration file not hard-coded.

router
  Removed compiled-in profiles and use profiles loaded from XML file.
  Improved the '--help' information to describe all options.
  Change the name of the --profile-json and --profile-perl options.
  Allow selection of the outputs to generate (or none).
  Added HTML route instructions output.
  GPX route file contains instructions at each waypoint.
  Read in XML file of translated words/phrases for outputs.
  Added options to specify file of translations and language to use.
  Remove copyright.txt file and put information into translations file.

filedumper
  Improved the '--help' information to describe all options.
  Added the option to dump an OSM file containing database contents.

Web Pages
  Combined generic map CSS into one file (not copied in two).
  Much better support for IE6/7/8 with browser detection but not perfect.
  Re-organised and tidied up the Javascript.
  Added button next to waypoints to centre it on map.
  Added button next to waypoints to set as home location (uses browsser cookie).
  Create shorter URLs for custom map (ignore default values).
  Reduced and clarified the amount of editing to customise the Javascript.
  Made it easier to translate by moving text out of Javascript (not visualiser).
  Prepared for translated versions of web page (Apache Multiviews).
  Added option to select language of output.
  Use HTML output from router to get translated instructions.


Version 1.3 of Routino released : Thu Jan 21 2010
-------------------------------------------------

Bug fixes:
  Ensure output even if the distance between two adjacent route points is small.
  Correct the determination of waypoints for abbreviated output.
  Check the command line values for filedumper --dump options.
  Made the verbose output consistent between different places.

OSM tagging
  Recognise "designation" tag to determine designated paths.
  Recognise "steps" tag to determine the highway type.
  Recognise "wheelchair" tag to determine if wheelchairs are allowed on highway.
  Recognise "moped" tag to determine if mopeds are allowed on a highway.
  Recognise "surface" and "paved" tags to determine if a highway is paved.
  Recognise "lanes" tag to determine if a highway has multiple lanes.
  Recognise "bridge" tag to determine if a highway is a bridge.
  Recognise "tunnel" tag to determine if a highway is a tunnel.

New Features
  Remove "bridleway" and "footway" highway types and use "path" highway instead.
  Added "steps" as a new highway type separate from the "path" type.
  Added "wheelchair" and "moped" to the list of possible transports.
  Added "paved", "multilane", "bridge", "tunnel" to list of highway properties.

Web Pages
  Updated for new features listed above.
  Added popup to display instructions for each step in route on mouse-over.
  Added buttons next to waypoints for: add / remove / move up / move down.
  Highlight user selectable parts of form in yellow on mouse-over.
  A few small changes, improved CSS, improved Javascript.

router
  For each waypoint choose closest point on a segment and not just closest node.
  Added the ability to set preferences based on highway properties.
  Changed the text output formats to include bearing and turn information.


Version 1.2 of Routino released : Wed Oct 21 2009
-------------------------------------------------

OSM tagging
  Recognise tags "vehicle" and "motor_vehicle".
  Handle duplicate ways in the input OSM file (e.g. concatenation of 2 files).

Database
  Identical ways are combined to reduce database size (~80% fewer ways stored).

Routing
  Fix weight, height, width, length restriction routing.
  Allow up to 99 waypoints to be specified instead of 9.

Visualiser
  Don't display speed limits for tracks and paths unless a value is set.
  Draw all super-segments that cross the selected boundary.

Web Pages
  A few small changes, improved CSS, improved Javascript.
  Changed marker colour when waypoint not selected.

planetsplitter
  Optional slim mode uses minimal memory at the expense of temporary files.

router
  Less CPU time for routing (~30% less).

filedumper
  Allow dumping individual nodes, segments and ways (for debug).


Version 1.1 of Routino released : Sat Jun 13 2009
-------------------------------------------------

Inputs
  Improve parsing of OSM file (imperial units).
  Ignore nodes that are missing from the input OSM file.

Outputs
  Create GPX route files as well as GPX track files.
  Read in an optional copyright.txt file and include contents in output.
  Make better choices about what to output in the abbreviated text file.

Routing
  Allow generating a route with intermediate waypoints.
  Use preferences for highway types instead of yes/no choice.
  Choice of closest node to start/finish points ensures transport allowed.

Visualiser
  Added data extraction function for viewing routing database data.

Web Pages
  Include full set of web pages for creating customised online router.

Documentation
  Included NEWS.txt file.
  Included documentation for installation of web pages.


Version 1.0 of Routino released : Wed Apr 08 2009
-------------------------------------------------

First version.
